# 7. Annexure: FAQs & More

(Not sure what to call this section but this is to address that this strategy isn’t complete and will keep evolving as AI keeps evolving. Eg: If true-AGI emerges in 2 years instead of 10, then we will need to re-think a lot of things here)\


AI innovation is happening in a matter of days, and not weeks, the strategy too needs to be flexible. It should be updated regularly with timelines. Eg: Today, India participating in creating large models and AGI by itself might not make sense computationally and hence is not part of this strategy outline, but as it becomes efficient and if we can contribute in a meaningful way in the future, we should.

\


### FAQs (Including what we’re not choosing to do & why)

1. **What do we do about AGI?**
   1. We don’t yet know if just more data and compute with the existing LLM models will lead us to true-AGI. It is likely beyond 2030. Regardless all the initiatives mentioned in the strategy would be important. As this strategy would be regularly updated, we will have to think about the economic shockwaves and dealing with them as part of the strategy.
   2. Today, India participating in creating large models and AGI by itself might not make sense computationally and hence is not part of this strategy outline, but as it becomes efficient and if we can contribute in a meaningful way in the future, we would want to incorporate it. \

2. **Are we building an "India LLM"?**&#x20;
   1. Assumption: Data is perrenial, models are perishable.
   2. As of the last update on this strategy an "India LLM" or an Indic Language LLM for India, there are benefits on working on an Indic Language LLM. We will therefore encourage research institutes as well as Indian businesses to explore it for use-cases which require these benefits:
      * **Accuracy** & fidelity in low-resourced indian languages, specially for in-context long document translation would be significantly better than machine translation models or generic LLMs ([arXiv:2303.12528](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.12528))
      * **Cost**. Language specific models will be cheaper because of the way they are tokenized, bringing the cost point to a level that is manageable for India
      * **Safety/Guardrails** such as preventing obscene data - which will be business critical - can be assured more on Indic LLMs ([arXiv:2310.02446](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02446)). It will also enable more reliable evaluation (eval) for low resource languages.
      * **Cultural Nuances** about India such as variations in religious beliefs, diets, rituals, values, etc. will be captured in higher fidelity with an Indic LLM.&#x20;
      * **Sovereignty**. Having an Indic Language LLM would have the obvious benefit of having end-to-end control on the training and structure of the model.
      * If we try, we spend a lot of resources very expensive for us. Build something that might become obsolete. Data is perrenial, models are perishable.. If we get to a stage where the cost equation works out, we will switch to making models

**Open Questions :**&#x20;

1. **Is cost of Compute the main reason to not build Foundational models for India? At what price of Compute, does it become feasible to build our own foundational models?** If so, then at what point of cost of compute does it make sense to explore such models? What are the reasons &#x20;

