---
description: Our Theory of Change for AI in India
---

# 2. Introduction

&#x20;

### Goal of this Strategy (and why do we even need one?)



**In the coming few years, AI will impact more than a billion Indians and the Indian economy (like it will the world) whether we like it or not.** It will be bigger, wider, & faster than any other technology ever before. The defining character of the 21st century for a country will be its ability to leverage AI.&#x20;

**The AI Revolution is a mother of all paradigm shifts**, giving birth to many other paradigm shifts. Like the Industrial Revolution created "winners", the AI Revolution will too. And India needs to be at its fore-front to live upto its expectations of being developed by 2047.

While India is on a good growth trajectory, other economies with AI can again have a relative advantage over India. While India has not fully been a research pioneer in AI, it can be the production and use-case pioneer. Eg: Digital payments although not invented here, have the largest use here because of it being built uniquely to India's needs as an open network.



It is crucial that India is at the forefront of this AI Revolution that lets it catapult into being a developed economy by 2047. **India cannot break into a PPP adjusted GDP per Capita of more than $50,000 through normal means of productivity.** It needs to push the productivity envelope beyond expectations. And AI can help do that.&#x20;

> **For India to be a fully developed Nation by 2047,  it will have to escape the middle-income trap & push the productivity envelope. AI will have to be a cornerstone of the strategy.**





AI can be part of the missing link that fills the productivity gaps of our economy. Helping unlock new kinds of efficiencies. **This won’t happen by accident.** In fact, if not traversed carefully, AI can lead to deep unemployment, and work only for firms where the power law is in effect.



**If we let AI in India take its natural course, we will end up in a future by default.**

Indians would be facing unintended consequences of **job** **displacements** without an AI-enabled workforce (of 500 million youth) and without a means to , **models** that are **not sensitive or aligned to Indian culture** and context, **applications** that are **not accessible** to a large majority of the country (those with less access to smartphones or ability to speak a "top-22" language, etc.), **data is in silos** which has a large **opportunity cost** in the ability to make governance, administration, distribution, logistics, etc. more efficient.

&#x20;

**To avoid this we need to move to a future by design**.&#x20;

**We need a clear, deliberate, inclusive and comprehensive strategy**. If done right, it can be a lever that helps India take its next leap with a new kind of operational efficiency and productivity gains that will not be possible without AI, and will help accelerate India to where it wants to be.&#x20;





### Targets Success for the Strategy

1. **India by 2030 should have become a fully “plus-AI” talent capital for the world** (just like it has been a services capital for the world) with a more than 500 million AI-ready workforce, leveraging our demographic dividend (not letting it become a demographic burden because of AI-based job displacement).
2. **India by 2030 should have identified use-cases and key sectors to deploy models that manifoldly increase productivity.**
3. **India by 2030 should have in place a comprehensive data sharing framework** for AI Training that allows for privacy guarantees according to Indian laws. This would enable private innovation on top of. **Eg: Maybe 1 trillion tokens available across all languages available from Govt. And a data sharing framework for private companies.**
4. **India by 2030 should have reached a GDP per capita growth rate**&#x20;
5. **India by 2030 should have set in motion a complete AI "jugal-bandi" between Samaaj (People), Sarkaar (Government) and Bazaar (the Market)**. Meaning the ecosystem is working together on policy, guardrails as well innovation to help India stay at the frontier.

**This strategy will always be a Work in Progress, also by design.** AI innovation is happening in a matter of days, and not weeks, the strategy too needs to be flexible. It should be updated regularly with timelines.&#x20;





**Where we are standing, AI is not a castle in the air.** It is in use and is making a difference on the ground. It is already a part of Aadhaar authentication. Today, because AI is used to monitor tax compliance and leakages in the digital systems of GST and income tax, the country’s tax-to-GDP ratio is at historic highs.

**This gives us the confidence that the next five to 10 years are going to define the future of India.** A future where children are better educated, where people are healthier, where they can use technology in any of India’s 120+ languages, and where everybody can get every imaginable service they want. A future where nobody is left behind.

\


**Note**: By India here we mean the Government, the companies, people & other research institutions



<mark style="color:purple;">**Open Questions :**</mark>&#x20;

1. <mark style="color:purple;">**What will be the quantified economical impact on India with AI? In Jobs (Unemployment and migration) and GDP Growth.**</mark>&#x20;
2. <mark style="color:purple;">**What KPIs will be used to evaluate the success of the AI strategy? We should define some quantifiable metrics to track progress.**</mark>&#x20;

