# 4. Diagnosis - Background, Opportunities & Challenges

**Owner**: Pratyush or Mitesh along with an Economics Advisor



**Background On India's Challenges & Opportunities**

* India has the largest digital savvy young population. It also has a unique environment of hundreds of dialects and languages which have led to high barriers of participation for a relatively uneducated individual.
* We have the talent - the people are here, and stuff is being built out of here
  * Get data from elsewhere&#x20;



**Background on AI & LLMs**

* Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown that neural networks work magically at a certain scale. Though the ideas are decades old, only now do we have the kind of data (largely digitised), compute infrastructure (that’s really powerful), and model architectures (such as the Transformer Model) that allow for parallel training of the data.&#x20;
* While LLMs are the most powerful AI solution we have seen so far, there is more to come and we need to be prepared for it. And enable the populace to use it to lower their barriers of participation in the workforce.



**Paradigm Shifts (Bets we think will play out based on India & AI background)**

1. **Voice as a new platform for human-computer interaction** will emerge in India.
2. **Ability to converse at a human-level at scale.**&#x20;
3. **AI-enabled talent** that becomes more employable, capable and efficient than ever before.

These paradigm shifts are hypotheses. They will be constantly iterated upon and improved and changed based on what's happening on the ground.



**Conclusion**

Like the Green Revolution brought in a multi-fold increase in agricultural output without a proportional increase in input, so too will the AI Revolution do, but for virtually every sector.

This change is powerful and needs to be orchestrated with a concerted effort across Government, companies and educational and research institutions. For this we need a comprehensive strategy.





**Open Questions :**&#x20;

1. How do we frame a narrative around “how we got here” or what has happened so far. A bird’s eye view of Prof. Mitesh’s article can be useful here, incredibly concise without many technical details.



**Challenges this paper is set out to solve for India**

1. **Data Gap:** Limited representation of India's vast diversity.
2. **Infrastructure Gap:** Not optimised for AI; ROI concerns. Big Models (Compute Cost) Gap: Need for sustainable, smaller models.
3. **Talent Gap (Intellectual Infrastructure):**&#x20;
   1. Lack of local AI expertise and opportunities.
   2. Challenges of re-skilling.&#x20;
4. **Responsible Futures:** Ethics, Policy & Jobs:&#x20;
   1. Need for AI guidelines and transparency
   2. Protection from harm, regulations
5. **Adoption & Deployment challenges**: Buy-in from Govt. and sectors belonging here?





**Other angles to write this :**&#x20;

1. 5 Layers of Challenges (or Pyramid). Making it an easy-to-understand framework.
2. Layers of Challenges from a “Systems Thinking” approach.
3. Challenge of competing with Large Models and cost of compute.
