---
description: Coherent Actions we'll take to make this happen.
---

# 6. Key Ecosystem Enablers

We need to take coherent actions to enable the ecosystem to thrive and answer “how do we achieve x” by keeping in mind our guiding policy and **principles**



### 6.1. Identifying India's unique Use-cases and promoting the industry ecosystem for building for them

Owner: Tanuj

Before we get to doing everything, knowing what use cases can thrive in India/from India will be helpful in focussing limited resources for maximum leverage. Success here will bring in more resources to the problem.

1. **How do we do this? / What’s to be done?**
   1. Run initiatives and deep research to identify problems of Bharat.
      1. Eg: People's Voice Series&#x20;



1. High Use from India :
   1. We see a use case for +ai talent and with the guiding policy of creating jobs, we need to\


**Open Questions :**&#x20;

1. How do we encourage AI adoption in sectors where technology is not the core business (like agriculture, healthcare, etc.)?&#x20;



### 6.2. Putting in place a Comprehensive Data & Infrastructure Strategy (Data Do, Kuch Lo)

Owner: Pratyush or Mitesh



1. **Data**&#x20;
   1. **Objective** - Unlock data available in Government, companies and people to be used for training while ensuring privacy.
   2. **How to achieve it**&#x20;
      1. **Data do, compute lo:**
      2. Data Aggregation: Work with various sectors (healthcare, transportation, agriculture) to compile extensive and diverse datasets. Keeping in mind our guiding policy 1&#x20;
      3. **DEPA 3.0**

\


2. **Infrastructure**:&#x20;
   1. Optimise for deployment, ensure ROI, and strategize for future needs.
   2. How to achieve it?
      1. AI Hubs: Develop regional AI hubs equipped with state-of-the-art computational resources. This can be done at an institutional level for all educational institutions
      2. Cloud Partnerships: Partner with cloud providers to facilitate computational needs at discounted rates for AI research.

\


**Open Questions :**&#x20;

1. We should have some form of a data corpus access being built. How do we create frameworks/ partnerships for this?
2. Does the Government invest in Pooled Compute for the ecosystem to thrive?
3. At what price of Compute, does it become feasible to build our own foundational models?
4. Who will be partners?\
   \


### 6.3. Smart Model Innovation with Deep Research:&#x20;

Owner: Pratyush or Mitesh

1. **Push boundaries on efficiency and size.** Advocate for sustainable 3B-20B range models. Focus on domain-specific models, distillation, and fine-tuning.&#x20;
2. **But how do we do this?**
   1. Drive partnerships between research + govt and companies
   2. Focused R\&D: Allocate resources specifically for the development of efficient and domain-specific AI models.&#x20;

\


**Open Questions :**

1. **Will this primarily be an RAG play?**
2. Who will spear-head this? IIT-like institutes?
3. What will the Govt. + Institutes + Companies partnership look like?\


### 6.4. Creating a plus AI Talent Pool that’s able to “Surf” through Job Displacement (Nurture Talent across Institutions that can Implement & Use)

**+ai talent is a new kind of talent that we must nurture**

* Jobs and job boundaries are going to be blurred, we can take advantage of this
* Skilling people up to a level of proficiency will be simpler, we need to close the loop on skilling, certification and jobs



[https://github.com/PeoplePlusAI/adbhut-india/issues/24](https://github.com/PeoplePlusAI/adbhut-india/issues/24)&#x20;



Launch cutting-edge courses and foster talent, champion AI projects, and establish knowledge hubs.



1. **Make AI more accessible to use for the public.** This includes making models that work for Tier 3 cities and beyond. Eg: Models that work for speakers of other languages such as Hindi, Telugu, etc.\

2. **Jobs & Re-skilling strategy.**
3. **Re-skilling Platforms:** Develop online platforms specifically geared towards re-skilling the existing workforce in AI-related capabilities.&#x20;

\
\


**Open Questions :**&#x20;

1. What will the re-skilling strategy be?
2. What kind of courses should happen at university level and school level and workforce industry professionals level?
3. How would we approach re-skilling for 500 million adults?  Which industries should we focus on first (1-2 years) and then which in the next 5-7 years? How do we gauge and incorporate public opinion on AI ethics and deployment?&#x20;

\
\


**Other angles to write this :**&#x20;

1. Write from 3 Levels:&#x20;
   1. Level 1: Talent pool that creates & deploys AI (Researchers etc.)
   2. Level 2: that actively uses AI&#x20;
   3. Level 3: General India - One knows how to use AI.&#x20;

\




### 6.5. Ensuring Responsible Future (with Ethics, Safety, Guardrails)

Owner: Rahul Matthan\


* Research AI ethics and safety with Indian Legal Institutes.
* Collaborate with the Government to shape policy for transparent, inclusive AI.&#x20;
* Setup a new regulating agency that optimises for a thriving ecosystem within guardrails (?)\


**Open Questions :**&#x20;

1. Legal Framework: Discuss the legal implications and requirements surrounding AI, such as privacy laws and data sovereignty
2. Ownership & IP Rights: Who owns the data? How do we negotiate the complex terrain of IP rights when data crosses borders?  &#x20;
3. &#x20;What will the regulating body be? Do we need an SRO for regulation in India?\


### **6.6. Indic LLM?**

Owner: Pratyush or Mitesh\
\
\
\
