# 7. Annexure: FAQs & More

(Not sure what to call this section but this is to address that this strategy isn’t complete and will keep evolving as AI keeps evolving. Eg: If true-AGI emerges in 2 years instead of 10, then we will need to re-think a lot of things here)\


AI innovation is happening in a matter of days, and not weeks, the strategy too needs to be flexible. It should be updated regularly with timelines. Eg: Today, India participating in creating large models and AGI by itself might not make sense computationally and hence is not part of this strategy outline, but as it becomes efficient and if we can contribute in a meaningful way in the future, we should.

\


#### FAQs (Including what we’re not choosing to do & why)

1. **Are we doing research on AGI?**
   1. We don’t yet know if just more data and compute with the existing LLM models will lead us to true-AGI. It’s not very likely.
   2. Today, India participating in creating large models and AGI by itself might not make sense computationally and hence is not part of this strategy outline, but as it becomes efficient and if we can contribute in a meaningful way in the future, we should. \

2. **What are we doing on AI Alignment?**
   1. We
3. **Are we building an "India LLM"?**
   1. Assumption: Data is perrenial, models are perishable.
   2. Apart from sovereignty, \
      \


**Open Questions :**&#x20;

1. **Is cost of Compute the main reason to not build Foundational models for India? At what price of Compute, does it become feasible to build our own foundational models?** If so, then at what point of cost of compute does it make sense to explore such models? What are the reasons &#x20;

