# 1. Introduction

Over the last few decades, AI has been subtly integrated into our daily lives. It's in our pockets and all our screens; used to recommend movies, verify identities, provide assistance and more.

The new era of AI models have transcended previous boundaries. They now grasp human language, interpreting and generating text, images, and speech often surpassing human capabilities. The rate at which they surpass humans in these tasks is only accelerating, and unlike humans, they operate at great scale and speed. For instance, OpenAI’s GPT-4 Turbo can generate human-like text at a speed of 20 pages in a minute, a feat unattainable by a human. \


The impending impact of AI will be bigger, wider & faster than anything in the history of mankind. The ripple effect of this transformation is bound to reverberate through our societal scaffolds and the economy. AI could account for up to $500 billion to India's GDP in the upcoming decade [\[1\]](https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/info-tech/ai-adoption-to-add-500-billion-to-gdp-by-2025-nasscom-report/article65557176.ece), almost as much as India's entire agricultural sector today, which forms 10% of our GDP.&#x20;

***

> “The rise of powerful AI will be either the best or the worst thing ever to happen to humanity. We do not yet know which.” — Stephen Hawking

This shift, while promising, brings along a host of challenges and questions. Will AI take away most jobs? Will just a few AI companies yield the most power and influence? Will opportunities become concentrated? The answer to all of these questions could be yes, if left unchecked. This unchecked scenario is what we call a ‘future by default’.&#x20;



**Even with such risks, AI holds immense promise.** The unchecked ‘future by default’ scenario can be avoided with deliberate design and foresight. The embodiment of this designed future is what we term as “Adbhut India” (AI)  or ‘Amazing India’. It is a ‘future by design’ where AI anchors opportunity to motivation rather than geographical or linguistic barriers. Here, India morphs into a global exemplar for AI application, leveraging it to obliterate barriers to equitable access and spur productivity.



**In this article we will cover what this possibility of an ‘Adbhut India’** with AI looks like and how India (with its unique socio-economic fabric) is positioned to leverage it.



**Then we will look at the ecosystem-level challenges** that we need to solve for the AI ecosystem of India, in order to get there, and why it makes sense to solve them with a group effort.

\
