# 2. The Stage is Set for an Adbhut India

**The stage is set for the creation of an 'Adbhut India' with AI.** We can say this because of 2 main arguments: India needs AI, and AI needs India.&#x20;

## 1. India needs AI

While the rest of the world is searching for use cases, in India, there are many because of its varied needs. In solving these needs, we have the ability to create an ‘Adbhut India’ with AI.

#### **1.1. India’s services are not accessible for many Indians. AI reduces barriers to access.**

India needs to improve demand side access to almost all services. For instance, 1 in 4 Indians are illiterate. Their lack of formal learning stifles their full participation in the formal economy.  AI would enable people to access services directly through voice in natural language. Those people whose jobs have been constrained by an inability to speak or write in specific languages would no longer face those constraints. This can help people self-service and reduce their barriers to accessing employment and other opportunities.\


#### **1.2. India needs to remove expertise as a bottleneck. AI offers expertise to everyone and intelligence at scale.**&#x20;

The glaring deficit of specialists per capita in India severely hampers our ability to get access to health, education, and timely justice, among others. Our systems of health, education, justice and others are bottlenecked without an adequate number of specialists. With only one doctor per 1,457 individuals, the nation lags by nearly half the recommended standard, underscoring a critical and alarming scarcity of healthcare professionals.&#x20;

The number of good specialists per capita is even more concerning. Even where specialists are available, they are often woefully inadequate and under-trained, often lacking access to basic training modules or equipment or other resources to do their job well.

AI has the potential to remove these supply side bottlenecks. With AI, these specialists will be able to augment their capabilities and become “plus-ai educators” or “plus-ai doctors”.  AI can equip an overwhelmed, under-trained teacher to deliver personalised, high-quality education, much like a top-tier educator. \


#### **1.3. India needs to increase productivity. AI helps people and systems be more productive.**

In order for India to become a ‘developed economy’ by 2047 it needs to greatly increase productivity. India’s IT industry accounts for almost 10% of the GDP and employs around 5.4 million people. The Agriculture sector as well accounts for around 10% of the GDP but employs around 148 million people. It’s the same amount of output but agriculture has almost 30x more people employed. This means, on average, a farmer would make 1/30th of every software person.

AI can in fact be a threat here, by automating away jobs, even in agriculture. Here especially a ‘future by default’ where AI automates and leads to unemployment is not welcome.

With a ‘future by design’ however, a “plus-AI” talent within India will increase the output per worker with higher efficiency and greater production, hence increasing competitiveness. A farmer that was once limited by his ability to not speak a particular language to work in a manufacturing sector would now be able to transition easily with AI. With AI, ideas and the ability to execute them will remain the only arbiters of success and allow an increase in productivity.\


## 2. AI Needs India

On top of India needing AI, AI also needs India.&#x20;

India has the perfect mix of users, complexity of usage and proof of large-scale adoption that makes it a fertile ground for the use of AI.&#x20;

#### **2.1. India will be the country with the highest number of daily AI users.**&#x20;

India forms a hot-bed for AI applications and services with a young and digitally savvy population, having nearly a billion mobile internet users, half of whom are under 25.

#### **2.2. India provides a diversity of challenges.**

India's complex socio-economic canvas presents a myriad of challenges that can serve as test beds for AI solutions. From urban planning in congested cities to delivering healthcare in remote areas, AI technologies can be honed and tested against a variety of use cases, far more diverse than what a more homogenous place might present.

Training AI on such a varied dataset can drastically improve its learning curve, making it robust and versatile. This is a critical requirement for AI systems that aim to function well globally.

#### **2.3. India has a track record of population-scale innovation & adoption.**

India has discovered that catering to underserved populations doesn’t just happen with a reactive government policy or industry innovation. It has discovered a proactive method – leveraging public tech for industry growth.

The nation’s unique Digital Public Infrastructure lays a robust foundation, empowering citizens to control their data, and fostering rapid digital adoption. India has seen this happen with FinTech already. And is witnessing good traction in the Logistics, Health, Telecom, and Drone sectors. This well-designed Digital Public Infrastructure has led to efficiency in the flow of people (with the [Aadhaar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aadhaar) identity), flow of money (with [UPI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified\_Payments\_Interface)), flow of data (with [consent based data sharing](https://sahamati.org.in/what-is-account-aggregator/)) and most recently, the flow of goods (with [ONDC](https://ondc.org/)).&#x20;

The Indian populace have also readily adopted these novel technologies at a population-scale. For instance: Digital payments weren’t invented in India, but they see the most use in India. The Unified Payments Interface (UPI) recently hit 10 billion transactions per month.&#x20;

This acceleration of infant-industry growth comes from an integrative view of the ecosystem. We can recreate the same magic by identifying similar horizontal use cases for AI.



***



**Hence, India needs AI as much as AI needs India.** India needs AI to solve systemic issues in productivity and access and with initiatives like Aadhaar and UPI. India has shown that it can leapfrog traditional stages of tech development and adopt digital infrastructure at scale. For AI, this means a ready platform for deployment and a society that is adaptable to large-scale digital shifts.



**India for AI and AI for India will help us create the destination of an ‘Adbhut India’**, where India is able to resolve problems of access, productivity and expertise as a bottleneck, with the use of AI. And Indians are able to adopt it at a population-scale.



**To reach this Adbhut India destination, certain challenges have to be overcome.** India’s ecosystem for AI of large companies, startups, nonprofits, etc. are what will help us get to an Adbhut India and help solve for the needs of India. But this ecosystem itself has needs and faces certain challenges.&#x20;

\
\
