---
description: For the ecosystem create an Adbhut India, it faces some large challenges
---

# 3. Ecosystem Challenges & How to Tackle Them

## To reach the goal of an 'Adbhut India', we face some Ecosystem-Level Challenges&#x20;

> “The future is already here – it's just not evenly distributed” — William Gibson.&#x20;



**India’s AI ecosystem is already doing wonderful work to solve for India’s needs.**&#x20;

For instance, there are startups that are creating AI applications for farmers to access climate-smart practices for their land, in Hindi or Telugu. “Big Tech” companies are creating voice-enabled interfaces to navigate their platforms in a more accessible way.



**Even so, the ecosystem itself faces challenges that prevent us from getting to an Adbhut India.** Not solving these challenges would lead to a slower pace of innovation, create waste and inefficiency, create unequal & unfair access to AI. If we don’t go together, we’re likely not going to get there. And definitely not in time.

\


**Here are the ecosystem-level challenges that exist at the infrastructure, talent levels, ecosystem-specific level:**

1. **Infrastructure Challenges.** The primary challenge that prevents us from getting to an ‘Adbhut India’ is unequal access to AI models for Indians. This challenge can be broken into data gaps, misaligned models and high computing costs.
   1. **Data Gaps can lead to unequal access.** The primary hurdle to cross to get to an ‘Adbhut India’ would be unequal distribution or access in AI models, which is likely to cause data gaps with language. India has 19,500 dialects and dozens of un-digitised languages, leaving some parts of the population at a disadvantage. Indians that only know these “low-resource” languages from accessing AI as others. New methods are needed to collect and share low-resource language text, speech and other data. New pricing models are needed to share the data.
   2. **Misaligned models might create barriers to access.** When a new model like an LLM is launched, we know it does well against an accuracy benchmark. But how do we know it does well with Indian culture and Indian context?
   3. **High computing costs can slow down innovation & reduce access.** The world is in a race to acquire processing power and GPUs. This makes it expensive and hard to access. This slows down the ecosystem & innovation. We need a strategy to bring down the cost of computation at an ecosystem level and increase access.
2. **Talent & Job Challenges.** Another major challenge that prevents an ‘Adbhut India’ is the risk of job losses and job displacement.
   1. Without rapid reskilling, we could have job displacement. With rapid reskilling for AI, we could have job growth. For India to maintain a competitive edge, it needs a clear strategy to re-skill to a “plus-ai” talent. +ai talent will serve markets outside of India.&#x20;
   2. Talent here also means deep-research talent. India needs to create opportunities for researchers, and create culture for R\&D in India so that novel AI research happens within India.
3. **Ecosystem-Specific Challenges.** The ecosystem itself faces some “meta” challenges, including understanding and working with Indian policy and law (such as privacy laws).
   1. Currently we don’t have a very clear, robust and innovative AI regulation regime. A meaningful regulation would help the ecosystem's growth accelerate \[[citation](https://www.vox.com/new-money/2017/2/13/14580874/google-self-driving-noncompetes)]. The Government has already started this process with the [IndiaAI Report 2023](https://www.meity.gov.in/content/indiaai-2023-expert-group-report-%E2%80%93-first-editionthe-ministry-electronics-and-information), yet more work remains to be done. This is where Samaaj, Sarkaar and Bazaar (people, government and market) need to come together and create a shared understanding of what India’s AI ecosystem needs to succeed, while empowering the people of India.
   2. In order to do this well, we need thoughtful conversations, places to share know-how of creating AI solutions or best practices for development, and to pass it on.&#x20;



Solving these sets of challenges would get us closer to realising an “Adbhut India” (AI).&#x20;

**The question is how do we solve them?**

\


## We need a group to create ecosystem-level solutions.&#x20;



**To solve these ecosystem-level challenges, we need ecosystem-level solutions.**&#x20;

Solo efforts would be insufficient. This would require a group and the entire ecosystem coming together to achieve this goal of an Adbhut India with AI. &#x20;

An illustrative example of ecosystem-level solutions coming from collective effort can be seen in the Human Genome Project (HGP). This was a mammoth scientific endeavour where international teams of researchers collaborated to map the entire human genome. No single researcher, lab, or even country could have accomplished this alone. The HGP required pooling resources, sharing data, and synchronising efforts across borders to achieve a common goal. This collective endeavour not only advanced our understanding of human biology but also set the stage for future medical breakthroughs. In the same vein, achieving Adbhut India with AI will necessitate a concerted effort that transcends individual capacities, embodying a synergy of diverse expertise and resources.\


**We need a group of organisations coming together aiming to achieve an ‘Adbhut India’ with AI. In order to be effective at tackling the ecosystem-level challenges, this group would need to:**



1. **Being use-case led**. We have to first look at what problems people face today that haven’t been easy to solve. Only then look at where AI can help. Starting with the tool and then finding a problem doesn’t lead to people-centric ideas and solutions.
2. **Be collaborative.** Collaboration at an ecosystem-level lets us have diversity of thought, avoid duplication of effort, reduce the cost to serve, increase the pace of innovation, and create wider impact. Eg: Open Source improves the pace of innovation. It doesn't preclude businesses from making money. It actually helps business and pushes the state of the art. People always build on each other's ideas and replicate them. An open exchange of ideas allows us to compound our knowledge and ideas by sharing them. In AI for example, open-source models such as Llama have led to innovation and creation of multiple other models.
3. **Build and share public goods.** Shared goods prevent us from getting trapped in the low-level competition for tool/platform dominance. Goods here means knowledge, tools, code, standards, challenges, etc. Sharing these widely would increase transparency and the pace of innovation. Eg: Creating an Open & Shared Benchmark to evaluate models for Indian culture and context would that the models work for India and Indians.
4. **Ensure a responsible future with AI.** This means we think about the second-order consequences and deal with them responsibly. We will need an alignment on ethics, values, etc. Beyond just a discourse on morality, this has practical implications on copyright law with AI generated content, guidelines and transparency for AI generated content, etc.

\
\


## What the Collective Plans To Do

Contributed by: AI4Bharat, Pratyush Kumar, Vivek Raghavan

\


By spotlighting real-world problems and promoting open collaboration, Adbhut India aims to focus energies on use-cases that matter. The initiative encourages sharing knowledge, tools, code, and challenges to accelerate problem-solving and innovation, while being responsible. This would ensure a future where technology serves all, not just a privileged few. &#x20;

\


This group doesn’t aim to create ‘solutions’ but only enable them. ‘Solutions’ are best created in a free market, but public infrastructure, the free market cannot function as smoothly.

\


This group wants to shape a ‘future by design’ with AI, as opposed to default.

\
\


What we will do in the coming 6 months:

\


1. Infrastructure-specific Actions&#x20;
2.
   1. Data: We will work on creating shared access to get more data for training and creating privacy preserving data sharing standards that ensure. We will also create ethically sourced datasets that benefit the ecosystem to fill the data gaps, especially in indic languages.
   2. Models: We will work on creating open benchmarks to evaluate the extent to which AI models capture Indian culture and context.
   3. Compute: We will be exploring means to create a pooled compute sharing with credits model that can pool the processing power and with effective utilisation of open networks to bring down the costs.
3. Talent-specific Actions
4.
   1. We will run pilots on hero use-cases within domains such as health or voice services to understand the workflows of existing talent and how AI fits into it. We also want to carry out research to understand the impact of AI within these domains and share it widely. Eventually this will allow us to build public goods for AI re-skilling and training that enables the ecosystem to create opportunities for the workforce.
   2. We will also be understanding any hurdles that prevent the Indian diaspora from contributing to research within India and have a larger impact.
5. Ecosystem-specific Actions.&#x20;
6.
   1. We will be synthesising positions from experts around Responsible AI for India and privacy laws. These findings will be made public for companies and lawmakers alike. This would eventually allow us to create a playbook for Indian organisations for the use of AI in India and its implications for copyright, and other consequences.

\


These are only the initial steps. In the long term we want to identify more such problems and solutions. We invite you to contribute and share ideas on what else this group can do.

\
\


What we not do:

\


As a group, we don’t want to create ‘products & solutions’ in the traditional sense.Hence the organisations within the group are free to do so. ‘AI products & solutions’ are best created in a free market by competing organisations. But without public infrastructure like plumbing or roads, the free market cannot function as smoothly. Hence, the group efforts would be focused only on creating such ‘plumbing’ which would mean public goods in terms of datasets, benchmarks, standards, knowledge playbooks, sector maps, etc.

\


Members of this group are expected to have their own incentives, and to work with the intention of creating value for themselves. In many cases, members of this group might be in direct competition with each other. However, as part of the group, we will be able to create the ‘plumbing’ that benefits the individual organisations as well as the entire community, and helps us get closer to an ‘Adbhut India’, which is why we are confident that even with separate, often conflicting interests, the values of ‘Adbhut India’ are universal and important enough that we can still work together to create meaningful and valuable ‘building blocks’.

\


We don't know what the future exactly looks like and don't want to be arrogant enough to guess exactly how AI will solve for India. But we can build a few key pieces that solve the ecosystem-level challenges, drive consensus, regulation, thought leadership, etc. which we know are the building blocks. Markets and entrepreneurs can use these and more to bring out the right solutions.

\
