---
description: 'Contributed by: AI4Bharat, Pratyush Kumar, Vivek Raghavan, People+AI Team'
---

# 4. Key Actions Planned for the Collective

**The 'Adbhut India' collective group wants to shape a ‘future by design’ with AI, as opposed to default.** Collectively, we will work on the ecosystem-level challenges.&#x20;

By spotlighting real-world problems and promoting open collaboration, Adbhut India aims to focus energies on use-cases that matter**.** The initiative encourages sharing knowledge, tools, code, and challenges to accelerate problem-solving and innovation, while being responsible. This would ensure a future where technology serves all, not just a privileged few. &#x20;

**This group doesn’t aim to create ‘solutions’ but only enable them.** ‘Solutions’ are best created in a free market, but public infrastructure, the free market cannot function as smoothly.



## What we will do in the coming 6 months:

### **1. Use-case Actions**

Share details on successful use-cases widely and openly, to further innovation, replication, or scaling up. Knowing what use cases can thrive in India/examples of functioning models from India will be helpful in focussing limited resources for maximum leverage. Success here will bring in more resources to the problem.

### **2. Infrastructure-specific Actions**&#x20;

1. **Data**:
   * **Data Corpus Creation Initiatives for Indic Languages and Indian context.** Work with various sectors (healthcare, transportation, agriculture) and the Government to compile extensive and diverse datasets, keeping in mind our guiding policies that are ethically sourced. **It's crucial to figure out how Government and Private partnerships work with data.** This data can be used for fine-tuning, etc.&#x20;
     * Government Datasets of Indic Languages: Promote open data initiatives where anonymised and non-sensitive data is made publicly available for research and development purposes. Identify digitisation strategies for data that is not available digitally.&#x20;
     * Private Datasets:  Work with various sectors (healthcare, transportation, agriculture) to compile extensive and diverse datasets, keeping in mind our guiding policy of ensuring a Responsible Future by being ethically sourced through value creation. We will also create ethically sourced datasets that benefit the ecosystem to fill the data gaps, especially in Indic languages.&#x20;
   * **We will work on creating privacy preserving data sharing standards**. These will ensure data silos are avoided without compromising privacy or security of datasets within the country.
   * **The goal is to Create, Curate, Collect & Correct Data For:**
     1. **Pre-training.** These efforts can include: Crawling at scale, Unlocking data in Govt (Prasar Bharti, Parliament, Judiciary, etc),  Collect on-field stories and experiences in Indian languages and transcribe.
     2. **Supervised Fine-tuning:** A large collection of prompts collected from Indians, then generate responses using models and get humans to edit, & repeat for multiple Indian languages. Can take one domain at a time: education, legal, government services.
     3. **Benchmarks**. Create a diverse set of multilingual prompts in Indian context by giving specific meta-prompts across multiple domains (“Eg: Imagine you are interacting with a bot on govt policies, what are the kind of questions you will ask”, “Imagine you are interacting with a NCERT bot, what are some tasks you would like it’s help with”) Evaluate the responses from proprietary and open LLMs.&#x20;
2. **Models**:&#x20;
   * **Leaderboards to evaluate models across parameters** to track performance of models on Indian languages.
   * [**India culture benchmarks to evaluate models**](#user-content-fn-1)[^1]**.** We will work on creating open benchmarks to evaluate the extent to which AI models capture Indian culture and context and in terms of comprehension and accuracy. This is currently headed by the [AI4Bharat](https://ai4bharat.iitm.ac.in/) team at IIT-Madras. The data collection above will help evaluate the models. The idea here is to create a diverse set of multilingual prompts in Indian context by giving specific meta-prompts across multiple domains (“Eg: Imagine you are interacting with a bot on govt policies, what are the kind of questions you will ask”, “Imagine you are interacting with a NCERT bot, what are some tasks you would like it’s help with”). Evaluate the responses from proprietary and open LLMs.
3. **Compute**:&#x20;
   * **Open Compute Network (OCC).**To solve for the cost and access of compute, we will be exploring means to create a pooled compute sharing with credits model. This would allow us to pool the processing power and with effective utilisation of open networks, let us bring down the costs. This project is called  You can read more about it here.



### **3. Talent-specific Actions**

1. **To understand the evolution of workplaces with AI, we will run pilots on hero use-cases** within domains such as health or voice services to understand the workflows of existing talent and how AI fits into it. We will carry out other forms of research to understand the impact of AI within these domains and share it widely. Eventually this will allow us to build public goods for AI re-skilling and training that enables the ecosystem to create opportunities for the workforce.&#x20;
2. **We will experiment with creating a re-skilling network** that allows re-training of certain skills and up-skilling,
3. **We will also be understanding any hurdles that prevent the Indian diaspora** across the world from contributing to research within India and have a larger impact.



### **4. Ecosystem-specific Actions.**&#x20;

1. **Synthesise**. We will be synthesising positions from experts around Responsible AI for India and privacy laws. These findings will be made public for companies and lawmakers alike.&#x20;
2. **Create Guidebooks.** This would eventually allow us to create a playbook for Indian organisations for the use of AI in India and its implications for copyright, and other consequences.
3. **Discussions with Policymakers.** These learnings would be openly shared with the relevant policy makers of the country.&#x20;

These are only the initial steps. In the long term we want to identify more such problems and solutions. We invite you to contribute and share ideas on what else this group can do.

Each layer of action has multiple partners as part of the collective. The partners will work together to avoid duplication of effort and create a ecosystem-level solution that benefits all players.



## What we will not do:

**As a group, we don’t want to create ‘products & solutions’ in the traditional sense.**

Hence the organisations within the group are free to do so. ‘AI products & solutions’ are best created in a free market by competing organisations. But without public infrastructure like plumbing or roads, the free market cannot function as smoothly. Hence, the group efforts would be focused only on creating such ‘plumbing’ which would mean public goods in terms of datasets, benchmarks, standards, knowledge playbooks, sector maps, etc.



**Members of this group are expected to have their own incentives, and to work with the intention of creating value for themselves.**&#x20;

In many cases, members of this group might be in direct competition with each other. However, as part of the group, we will be able to create the public goods that benefits the individual organisations as well as the entire community, and helps us get closer to an ‘Adbhut India’, which is why we are confident that even with separate, often conflicting interests, the values of ‘Adbhut India’ are universal and important enough that we can still work together to create meaningful and valuable ‘building blocks’.\


**We don't know what the future exactly looks like and don't want to be arrogant enough to guess exactly how AI will solve for India.**&#x20;

But we can build a few key pieces that solve the ecosystem-level challenges, drive consensus, regulation, thought leadership, etc. which we know are the building blocks. Markets and entrepreneurs can use these and more to bring out the right solutions.

\


[^1]: This project is in progress, headed by the AI4Bharat team at IIT-Madras

