---
description: 'Contributed by: AI4Bharat, Pratyush Kumar, Vivek Raghavan, People+AI Team'
---

# 4. What the Adbhut India Collective Plans To Do

**By spotlighting real-world problems and promoting open collaboration, Adbhut India aims to focus energies on use-cases that matter.** The initiative encourages sharing knowledge, tools, code, and challenges to accelerate problem-solving and innovation, while being responsible. This would ensure a future where technology serves all, not just a privileged few. &#x20;



**This group doesn’t aim to create ‘solutions’ but only enable them.** ‘Solutions’ are best created in a free market, but public infrastructure, the free market cannot function as smoothly.



**This group wants to shape a ‘future by design’ with AI, as opposed to default.**

\


## What we will do in the coming 6 months:

1. **Infrastructure-specific Actions**&#x20;
   1. **Data**: We will work on creating shared access to get more data for training and creating privacy preserving data sharing standards that ensure. We will also create ethically sourced datasets that benefit the ecosystem to fill the data gaps, especially in indic languages. Create, Curate, Collect & Correct Data For:
      1. **Benchmarks**. Create a diverse set of multilingual prompts in Indian context by giving specific meta-prompts across multiple domains (“Eg: Imagine you are interacting with a bot on govt policies, what are the kind of questions you will ask”, “Imagine you are interacting with a NCERT bot, what are some tasks you would like it’s help with”) Evaluate the responses from proprietary and open LLMs.
      2. **Pre-training.** These efforts can include: Crawling at scale, Unlocking data in govt (Prasar Bharti, Parliament, Judiciary, etc), Transcribe YT videos in Indian languages,Collect on-field stories and experiences in Indian languages and transcribe.
      3. **Supervised Fine-tuning: These efforts can include:** A large collection of prompts collected from Indians, Generate responses using models and get humans to edit, Repeat for multiple Indian languages. Can take one domain at a time: education, legal, government services.
   2. **Models**: We will work on creating open benchmarks to evaluate the extent to which AI models capture Indian culture and context and in terms of comprehension and accuracy.&#x20;
   3. **Compute**: We will be exploring means to create a pooled compute sharing with credits model that can pool the processing power and with effective utilisation of open networks to bring down the costs.
2. **Talent-specific Actions**
   1. We will run pilots on hero use-cases within domains such as health or voice services to understand the workflows of existing talent and how AI fits into it. We also want to carry out research to understand the impact of AI within these domains and share it widely. Eventually this will allow us to build public goods for AI re-skilling and training that enables the ecosystem to create opportunities for the workforce
   2. We will also be understanding any hurdles that prevent the Indian diaspora from contributing to research within India and have a larger impact
3. **Ecosystem-specific Actions.**&#x20;
   1. We will be synthesising positions from experts around Responsible AI for India and privacy laws. These findings will be made public for companies and lawmakers alike.&#x20;
   2. This would eventually allow us to create a playbook for Indian organisations for the use of AI in India and its implications for copyright, and other consequences.



These are only the initial steps. In the long term we want to identify more such problems and solutions. We invite you to contribute and share ideas on what else this group can do.

\


## What we will not do:

**As a group, we don’t want to create ‘products & solutions’ in the traditional sense.**

Hence the organisations within the group are free to do so. ‘AI products & solutions’ are best created in a free market by competing organisations. But without public infrastructure like plumbing or roads, the free market cannot function as smoothly. Hence, the group efforts would be focused only on creating such ‘plumbing’ which would mean public goods in terms of datasets, benchmarks, standards, knowledge playbooks, sector maps, etc.

\


**Members of this group are expected to have their own incentives, and to work with the intention of creating value for themselves.**&#x20;

In many cases, members of this group might be in direct competition with each other. However, as part of the group, we will be able to create the public goods that benefits the individual organisations as well as the entire community, and helps us get closer to an ‘Adbhut India’, which is why we are confident that even with separate, often conflicting interests, the values of ‘Adbhut India’ are universal and important enough that we can still work together to create meaningful and valuable ‘building blocks’.

\


**We don't know what the future exactly looks like and don't want to be arrogant enough to guess exactly how AI will solve for India.**&#x20;

But we can build a few key pieces that solve the ecosystem-level challenges, drive consensus, regulation, thought leadership, etc. which we know are the building blocks. Markets and entrepreneurs can use these and more to bring out the right solutions.

\
