# 5. Join the Adbhut India Mission

**Adbhut India is a destination** where India is able to harness AI to solve real challenges, thus crafting a future where technology uplifts every segment of society.  Being part of Adbhut India is an open invitation to co-author India’s AI narrative, ensuring it steers towards inclusive growth.

**Through strategic focus and collaborative action,** this group Adbhut India envisions making the nation a beacon of AI innovation, where the technology serves all, not a select few and aims to solve the ecosystem-level challenges India faces in order to get to the destination.



### Signing the Pledge

The first level of commitment and engagement is to sign the 'Adbhut India' pledge.&#x20;

**By signing up to our pledge**, you align with the broader goal of an Adbhut India and agree to be a part of the collective tent that wants to help achieve it. \


**As a signee, you agree to our principles of being use-case led, being collaborative, building and sharing public goods, and ensuring a responsible future with AI.**&#x20;

Sharing resources and any information would only be limited to what can be publicly shared by your organisation without objection. You will not be asked or required to share anything more than what you and your teams are comfortable with doing.&#x20;



### Further Engagement

\
**Engagement** would be varied according to what your organisation is comfortable with.&#x20;

This could mean working with other organisations, startups, companies, non-profits, or the government to create public goods such as datasets, or collaborating on data and compute sharing standards, etc.&#x20;

You could also engage with sharing resources in terms of people, time, access, etc.

You will not be contractually obliged to engage. Sticking to our principles of being collaborative, we expect a goodwill-based engagement of helping shape the environment for the ecosystem (including your own organisation) to thrive.  \


\[Link to form to sign up to the pledge including which area the organisation/individual wants to contribute]

\


