---
description: Our Theory of Change for AI in India
---

# 2. Introduction

**The AI Revolution**

**In the coming few years, AI will impact more than a billion Indians and the Indian economy.** It will be bigger, wider, & faster than any other technology ever before. The defining character of the 21st century for a nation, will be its ability to leverage AI.&#x20;

**The AI Revolution is a mother of all paradigm shifts**, giving birth to many other paradigm shifts. Like the Industrial Revolution created "winners", the AI Revolution will too. India needs to place itself at the fore-front of this to live upto its aspiration of achieving 'developed nation' status by 2047.



**India's AI Advantage**

**Where we are standing, AI is not a castle in the air.** It is in use and is making a difference on the ground. It is already a part of Aadhaar authentication. Today,  AI is used to monitor tax compliance and leakages in the digital systems of GST and income tax, the country’s tax-to-GDP ratio is at historic highs.

While India remains on a good and steady growth trajectory, other AI driven economies may gain a relative advantage over India in the coming years. Thus far India has not been a research pioneer in AI, but it can become a production and use-case pioneer. A key example would be the expansion of digital payment systems. Although not invented in India, the technology has garnered the largest user base here. This is because it was built uniquely to suit India's needs as an open network. This had many trickle down effects including but not limited to increasing digital penetration, financial inclusion, expanding financial and digital literacy.&#x20;

It is crucial that India is at the forefront of the AI Revolution. Tapping into it's potential would expand the nations development trajectory, catapulting it into a developed economy by 2047. **India cannot break into a PPP adjusted GDP per Capita of more than $50,000 through normal means of productivity.** It needs to push the productivity envelope beyond expectations and AI can help do that. AI adoption can also carve out a more equitable and inclusive growth trajectory, as demonstrated by the example of digital payment systems.&#x20;

> **For India to be a fully developed Nation by 2047,  it will have to escape the middle-income trap & push the productivity envelope. AI will have to be a cornerstone of the strategy.**

AI can be part of the missing link that fills the productivity gaps of our economy; helping unlock new kinds of efficiencies. **This won’t happen by accident.** In fact, if not traversed carefully, AI can lead to deep unemployment, exacerbate inequality and work only for firms where the power law is in effect.



### Towards a Future by Design

**If we let AI in India take its natural course, we will end up in the future by default.**

Indians would be facing unintended consequences of **job** **displacements** without an AI-enabled workforce (of 500 million youth) and without a means to , **models** that are **not sensitive or aligned to Indian culture** and context, **applications** that are **not accessible** to a large majority of the country (those with less access to smartphones or ability to speak a "top-22" language, etc.), **data is in silos** which has a large **opportunity cost** in the ability to make governance, administration, distribution, logistics, etc. more efficient.

&#x20;

**To avoid this we need to move to a future by design**.&#x20;

**We need a clear, deliberate, inclusive and comprehensive strategy**. If done right, it can be a lever that helps India take its next leap with a new kind of operational efficiency and productivity gains that will not be possible without AI.&#x20;



**This strategy gives us the confidence that the next five to 10 years are going to define the future of India.** A future where children are better educated, where people are healthier, where they can use technology in any of India’s 120+ languages, and where everybody can get every imaginable service they want. A future where nobody is left behind.



### Targets Success for the Strategy

1. **India by 2030 should have become a fully “plus-AI” talent capital for the world** (just like it has been a services capital for the world) with a more than 500 million AI-ready workforce, leveraging our demographic dividend (not letting it become a demographic burden because of AI-based job displacement).
2. **India by 2030 should have identified use-cases and key sectors to deploy models that manifoldly increase productivity.**
3. **India by 2030 should have in place a comprehensive data sharing framework** for AI Training that allows for privacy guarantees according to Indian laws. This would enable private innovation on top of. **Eg: Maybe 1 trillion tokens available across all languages available from Govt. And a data sharing framework for private companies.**
4. **India by 2030 should have set in motion a complete AI People, Government, Market**. Meaning the ecosystem is working together on policy, guardrails as well innovation to help India stay at the frontier.



**This strategy will always be a Work in Progress, by design.** AI innovation is happening in a matter of days, and not weeks, the strategy too needs to be flexible. It should be updated regularly with timelines.&#x20;

\


**Note**: By India here we mean the Government, the companies, people & other research institutions



<mark style="color:purple;">**Open Questions :**</mark>&#x20;

1. <mark style="color:purple;">**What will be the quantified economical impact on India with AI? In Jobs (Unemployment and migration) and GDP Growth.**</mark>&#x20;
2. <mark style="color:purple;">**What KPIs will be used to evaluate the success of the AI strategy? We should define some quantifiable metrics to track progress.**</mark>&#x20;

