# 3. Diagnosis - Background, Opportunities & Challenges

## **Background On India's Challenges & Opportunities**



**Overview of Challenges & Opportunities**

* Indians would be facing unintended consequences of **job** **displacements** without an AI-enabled workforce (of 500 million youth) and without a means, **models** & applications that are **not sensitive or aligned to Indian culture** and context, **models** and applications that are **not accessible** to a large majority of the country (those with less access to smartphones or ability to speak a "top-22" language, etc.), **data is in silos** which has a large **opportunity cost** in the ability to make governance, administration, distribution, logistics, etc. more efficient.
* India has the largest pool of digital savvy young population. In addition to this, its unique cultural makeup comprising of hundreds of languages and dialects, leads to high barriers of participation for a relatively uneducated individual.
* We have the talent - the people are h ere, and stuff is being built out of here. The talent pool needs further nourishment.



### **1. Ecosystem Gap:**&#x20;

India's AI Ecosystem (companies, institutions, start-ups, government, non-profits, etc.) lacks a cohesive vision, information sharing, and policy advisory.&#x20;

* India's AI Ecosystem (companies, institutions, startups, government, non-profits, etc.) lacks a cohesive vision & information sharing & policy advisory.&#x20;
* India also lacks a policy or a feedback loop with the policy makers that is inclusive of the entire AI ecosystem and extended community.
* **Adoption & Deployment challenges**: Buy-in from Govt. and sectors belonging here?&#x20;
* **Responsible Futures:** Ethics, Policy & Jobs:&#x20;
  1. Need for AI guidelines and transparency
  2. Protection from harm, regulations



### **2. Talent Gap (Intellectual Infrastructure Gap):**&#x20;

1. **The talent problem is two-fold:**
   1. **Labour Displacement -** Lack of local AI expertise and opportunities.
   2. **Challenges of re-skilling non-displaced labour -** A large amount of jobs will still remain but their nature would change entirely with AI. Given this reality, re-skilling is vital to boost the talent's productive and competitive capabilities, particularly given other countries where talent is taught how to utilise AI capabilities.&#x20;
2. **The opportunities**
   1. **For a large part of India, the English language has been a barrier and AI can help resolve that -** For the first time in history, language and education need no longer be barriers, as AI can remove the friction in conversing and participating.&#x20;
   2. **Skilling and training is a lot easier with the use of AI and other digital technologies** - Unlike in the past, skilling can be done in the remotest parts of the nation virtually, increasing inclusivity.&#x20;
   3. **Expanding the capabilities of women workers** - Studies have found that AI will disproportionately displace women workers globally. While this poses a challenge, this is also a great opportunity to upskill women, generate employment opportunities for them and better their living conditions.&#x20;
3. **Supply Side:** The talent problem is two-fold.
   1. **Labour Displacement.** Job Lack of local AI expertise and opportunities.
   2. **Challenges of re-skilling for non-displaced labour**. A large amount of jobs will still remain but their nature would change entirely with AI. A re-skilling is required here for the talent to be more productive to compete especially with other countries where talent is using AI
4. **Consumers (Demand Side):**
   1. **For a large part of India, the English language has been a barrier in formal,** and for the first time in history, language and education need no longer be barriers as AI can remove the friction to talk to participate.&#x20;

## <mark style="color:blue;">6.5. Creating a plus AI Talent Pool that’s able to “surf” through Job Displacement (Nurture Talent across Institutions that can Implement & Use)</mark>

* **Imagine if language was no longer barrier for entry for workers.** Once you remove the burden of education or knowing English or another popular language to participate, the only challenge then remains is to skill them in a masterfully crafted learning experience
* **+ai talent is a new kind of talent that we must nurture.** People who use AI might replace those who don't. These are the "+ai talent". Jobs and job boundaries are going to be blurred, we can take advantage of this
* Skilling people up to a level of proficiency will be simpler, we need to close the loop on skilling, certification and jobs



**Launch cutting-edge courses and foster talent, champion AI projects.**

1. **Make AI more accessible to use for the public.** This includes making models that work for Tier 3 cities and beyond. Eg: Models that work for speakers of other languages such as Hindi, Telugu, etc.
2. **Jobs & Re-skilling strategy.**
3. **Re-skilling Platforms:** Develop online platforms specifically geared towards re-skilling the existing workforce in AI-related capabilities.&#x20;



**There are different segments of "talent" and each requires a different granularity of thinking -**&#x20;



<table><thead><tr><th width="357.3333333333333">Industry/Segment</th><th>Number &#x26; Percent</th><th>Impact &#x26; Strategy</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Agriculture &#x26; Allied Workers</td><td>200 million+</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Blue Collar &#x26; Gig Workers</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Builders (Startups)</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Research</td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

1. **On Agriculture & Allied Workers (200 million+)** - The largest challenge for India to reduce its workforce dependency on agriculture has been a lack of education and training towards industry for these workers. What AI will enable us to do is to exponentially increase access to industry for this workforce by letting them participate in the formal economy and industrial economy by just speaking to an interface in their native dialect and language and learn too from it. It might seem ambitious to cause a migration of work from Agriculture to other sectors but the example of the US shows it can be done. **Agriculture was 50% of us employment in 1900, and by 1970 it was 4% in the US.**&#x20;
2. **Blue Collar Workers.**&#x20;
3. **Gig-Workers.**&#x20;
4. **On builders / researchers / engineers** - Need to attract talent, in a globally competitive race. Need to provide access to compute and capital, and high incentives to innovate. Need to appreciate geopolitical implications and strategic applications which need to be domiciled in the country. Should make available data ecosystems which create funnels of data by domain across unstructured text, structured textbooks, knowledge bases, preference data, etc.





### **3. Infrastructure Gap:**

1. **Data Gap:**&#x20;
   * **Limited representation of India's vast diversity of cultural context**. Not optimised for AI
   * **Limited representation of "low-resource" Indic languages.** In order to make AI reach all Indians,&#x20;
   *   Should make available data ecosystems which create funnels of data by domain across unstructured text, structured textbooks, knowledge bases, preference data, etc.

       India has a comparative advantage with the Digital Public Infrastructure based frameworks tending to have a very high adoption and they make sense for the complexity and cross-collaboration of companies to increase efficiency.&#x20;
2. **Compute Gap**.&#x20;
   * **Cost.** The cost of processing power and the lack of infrastructure available for research institutes, startups and companies to access "compute" at a reasonable cost would cause India to play catch-up compared to the rest of the world.&#x20;
   * **Availability.** The infrastructure of compute is also not easily available for organisations to use in India. Even if the cost is set aside, availability of compute resources is difficult to obtain.
3. **Models Gap.**&#x20;
   * **Lack of a Bharat Benchmark.**&#x20;
   * **Need for sustainable, smaller models.** When hundreds of millions of inferences are made: as usage of a large-scale AI model increases, the number of inferences increases, so the compute needed to handle those inferences also increases.



### **4. Use-Case Gap:**



## **Background on AI & LLMs**

* Large Language Models (LLMs) most recently have shown that neural networks work magically at a certain scale. Though the ideas are decades old, only now do we have the kind of data (largely digitised), compute infrastructure (that’s really powerful), and model architectures (such as the Transformer Model) that allow for parallel training of the data.&#x20;
* While LLMs are the most powerful AI solution we have seen so far, there is more to come and we need to be prepared for it. The Indian populace needs to be equipped to use it, so as to lower their barriers of participation in the workforce.



### **Paradigm Shifts (Bets we think will play out based on India & AI background)**

1. **Voice as a new platform for human-computer interaction** will emerge in India.
2. **Ability to converse at a human-level, at scale. This can lead to** efficiency in decision making and governance, owing to AI adoption by domestic stakeholders.&#x20;
3. **AI-enabled talent** that becomes more employable, efficient, and capable than ever before.
4. **Grass-root level penetration of AI technology**, including its adoption by lower tiers of governments and individual citizens.&#x20;



These paradigm shifts are hypotheses. They will be constantly iterated, improved, and changed upon based on what is happening on the ground.



## **Conclusion**

* Like the Green Revolution brought in a multi-fold increase in agricultural output without a proportional increase in input, so too will the AI Revolution, but for virtually every sector.
* This change is powerful and needs to be orchestrated with a concerted effort across government, businesses, educational and research institutions. For this we need a comprehensive strategy.





**Other angles to write this :**&#x20;

1. 5 Layers of Challenges (or Pyramid). Making it an easy-to-understand framework.
2. Layers of Challenges from a “Systems Thinking” approach.
3. Challenge of competing with Large Models and cost of compute.
