# 3. Diagnosis - Background, Opportunities & Challenges

## Gaps in the India AI Ecosystem

We have identified gaps that the India AI ecosystem at large face today. It helps to list them out:

### **Use-Case Gaps & Opportunities**

* Identifying practical and impactful use-cases tailored to the Indian socio-economic milieu remains pivotal.&#x20;
* Creating AI models that understand and are aligned with Indian cultural nuances and languages will catalyse adoption across sectors.



### **Infrastructure Gaps & Opportunities**

India has a comparative advantage with the Digital Public Infrastructure based frameworks tending to have a very high adoption and they make sense for the complexity and cross-collaboration of companies to increase efficiency. This can be leveraged to fulfill the data & compute gaps.

1. **Data Gap:** There is a limited representation of India's vast diversity. Not optimised for AI. We need to make available data ecosystems which create funnels of data by domain across unstructured text, structured textbooks, knowledge bases, preference data, etc.&#x20;
2. **Compute Gap**. As usage of a large-scale AI model increases, the number of inferences increases, so the compute needed to handle those inferences also increases. Compute would be a valuable resource and its availability and affordability being ensured &#x20;
3. **Models Gap.** There's a pressing need for models that can efficiently operate within the Indian context, understanding myriad languages, dialects, and regional nuances, bridging the digital divide. Currently very large models are like aeroplanes that are landing on top of air strips. We need to find a way to take these to every nook and corner of the country - the IT tech corridors, the busy city roads, the village kachcha roads, etc. Here we discuss the need for supporting diverse languages and cultures, quintessentially Indian interests, and a melange of value systems. \




### **Talent Gaps & Opportunities**

One of the largest challenges  for India has been to improve its output per worker has been its workforce dependency on agriculture and the lack of education and training towards industry for these workers.

**AI enables the possibility to** **exponentially increase access** to industry for this workforce by letting them participate in the formal economy and industrial economy by just speaking to an interface in their native dialect and language and learn too from it.

**Once you remove the burden of education or language** or knowing English or another popular language to participate, the only challenge then remains is to skill them in a masterfully crafted learning experience

1. **Loss of Jobs in some sectors and re-skilling displaced workers.** Job Lack of local AI expertise and opportunities.
2. **Up-skilling for non-displaced labour**. A large amount of jobs will still remain but their nature would change entirely with AI. A re-skilling is required here for the talent to be more productive to compete especially with other countries where talent is using AI
3. **For a large part of India, the English language has been a barrier in formal,** and for the first time in history, language and education need no longer be barriers as AI can remove the friction to talk to participate.&#x20;



* **Based on Type of Workers**
  * **On Agriculture & Allied Workers (200 million+)** - The largest challenge for India to reduce its workforce dependency on agriculture has been a lack of education and training towards industry for these workers. AI will enable us to exponentially increase access to industry for this workforce by letting them participate in the formal economy and industrial economy by just speaking to an interface in their native dialect and language and learn too from it. It might seem ambitious to cause a migration of work from Agriculture to other sectors but the example of the US shows it can be done. **Agriculture was 50% of us employment in 1900, and by 1970 it was 4% in the US.**&#x20;
  * **Blue Collar Workers & Gig-Workers.** The major hurdles faced by this segment include lack of modernised training programs, limited access to advanced technological tools, and often, a language barrier owing to India's linguistic diversity.
  * **On builders / researchers / engineers** - There is a need to attract & retain talent, in a globally competitive race. Need to provide access to compute and capital, and high incentives to innovate. Need to appreciate geopolitical implications and strategic applications which need to be domiciled in the country. Should make available data ecosystems which create funnels of data by domain across unstructured text, structured textbooks, knowledge bases, preference data, etc.

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="163.33333333333331">Industry/Segment</th><th width="140">Number &#x26; Percent</th><th>Impact</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Agriculture &#x26; Allied Workers</td><td>200 million+</td><td><ul><li>Contribute to formalisation of the sector. </li><li>Impart scientific information and training  to stakeholders at the grassroot level, in their native languages. </li><li>Improve efficiency and productivity within the sector.</li><li>Pave the way for largescale adoption of sustainable agricultural practices, keeping in mind ecological concerns. This would directly help in tackling climate change at the grassroot level. </li><li>Successful skilling programs would help move the workforce to other lucrative sectors, leading to improved standard of living. </li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Blue Collar &#x26; Gig Workers</td><td>(500 million+) </td><td><ul><li>Ensure greater workplace safety and prevent exploitation. </li><li>Skilling programs in native languages will help workers access better opportunities </li><li>Ensure enrolment and access to government schemes, identity documents and social security schemes</li></ul><p></p></td></tr><tr><td>Builders (Start-ups)</td><td>[TBA]</td><td><ul><li>Help improve cost efficiency and expand the scale of the venture. </li><li>Easier access to skilled talent pool. </li><li>Easier access to compute and capital. </li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Legal Professionals </td><td>(<em>1.5 million+</em>)</td><td><ul><li>Access to better legal and case research tools</li><li>Digitisation of the court system would further aid  lawyers and boost transparency of the system. </li><li>Availability of case laws in native languages bridges gaps in legal education, training and practice. </li><li>Expand access to cost effective legal aid.</li><li>The judicial system will become efficient and impactful. </li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Educators </td><td>(<em>95 lakh+)</em></td><td><ul><li>Access to training and upskilling tools </li><li>Introduction of teaching assistants to impart quality education </li><li>Accessible education including access to neurodivergent educational learning tools. </li><li>Methods of monitoring and tailoring learning pathways. </li><li>Effective Parent Engagement tools to plan, execute and monitor ongoing parent-teacher relationship.</li><li>Tools for Planning, Conducting and evaluating adaptive assessments.</li><li>Curriculum/Content creation tools providing adaptive content based on analysed student data.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Medical professionals </td><td>[TBA]</td><td>[TBA]</td></tr><tr><td>Students </td><td>250 million</td><td><ul><li>Assistance in managing school work, calendaring, prepping for assessments etc.</li><li>Curating personalised learning by analysing learning patterns and behaviours</li><li>Assess students' vision, goals, skills, and knowledge to provide career guidance. </li><li> AI curriculum to upskill all students to be job ready.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

### **Ecosystem Gaps Gaps & Opportunities**

* **India's AI Ecosystem** (companies, institutions, start-ups, government, non-profits, etc.) lacks a cohesive vision, information sharing, and policy advisory. This strategy is aimed to tackle this.
* **India also lacks an AI policy or regulatory framework.** Emergence of a robust and enabling AI regulation regime would help the ecosystem growth accelerate. The Government has already started this process with the IndiaAI Report 2023 and there remains more work to be done.
* **The ecosystem also lacks an alignment in ensuring a Responsible Future and specific alignment on** Ethics, values & policies which have practical implications on copyright law with AI generated content, guidelines and transparency for AI generated content, etc.&#x20;
* **Adoption & Deployment challenges**: The ecosystem faces challenges in deployment of robust AI systems for consumers.

###

## **Important Paradigm Shifts (Bets we think will play out based on India & AI background)**

These paradigm shifts are hypotheses. They will be constantly iterated upon, improved, and changed based on what is happening on the ground.

1. **Voice as a new platform for human-computer interaction** will emerge in India.
2. **Ability to converse at a human-level, at scale.** This would increase efficiency in decision making and governance, owing to AI adoption by domestic stakeholders.&#x20;
3. **AI-enabled talent** that becomes more employable, efficient, and capable than ever before.

&#x20;

## **Conclusion**

Like the Green Revolution brought in a multi-fold increase in agricultural output without a proportional increase in input, so too will the AI Revolution, but for virtually every sector.

This change is powerful and needs to be orchestrated with a concerted effort across government, businesses, educational and research institutions. For this we need a comprehensive strategy.



